Reading the comments on our built videos, you would think that half of our audience works in Microsoft's licensing department. But what about Windows Linus? Are you stealing Windows? And okay, I get it. Multi-billion dollar corporations are precious and must be protected at all costs. But for the average user, throwing 10% of your PC budget at an operating system that then turns around and spies on you and crams ads down your throat, it's kind of a tough pill to swallow. Especially with your throat full of ads. So what are the alternatives here? Well, as it turns out, there are at least a dozen different ways to buy or not buy Windows, ranging from free to almost $200. And we tried all of them so you won't have to. We also tried to tell you about our sponsor, Hetsner. They now take payments in dollars instead of just euros so you can access their cloud and dedicated servers without the messiness of currency conversion. Learn more about how to access their North American servers with our link down below and use code LTT24 to get $20 off. Before I get myself into any trouble here, I wanna make it clear that as a business, we absolutely pay for the software that helps us make money, including Windows. So with that in mind, let's start with the most official of sources, Microsoft.com, where, ha, I guess even they can't believe anyone wants to actually pay for Windows. So they bury the link way down here and what? $140? That's gotta be the Canadian price. And no, how is it that the download license direct from Microsoft is the exact same price as the full retail version, one that has to absorb both the retail markup and the included USB stick? And what is Windows 11 family? Oh, I see, it's French. Nous sommes une famille. Why did we buy French Windows? It's all they had in stock. I see, well, that's fine. We can just install it, en France, and then add a language pack. By the way, here's a neat little trick. Microsoft likes to pretend that you can't install without an internet connection, but if you hit Shift F10, once the installer gets past the first reboot, you should get a command prompt where you can type in, Ubi, backslash, bypass NRO with no spaces and hit enter. The system will reboot again, and this time you can tell it, you don't have any internets, and you can use a local account instead of being forced to sign into a Microsoft account. When you're doing something stupid, like installing Windows over and over again from different sources for a YouTube video, that's gonna save you a ton of time that you would otherwise burn waiting for updates. Once we booted up Windows 11 family, as expected, it activated without issue, bringing us to method number two, buying retail Windows from a retailer, in this case, Best Buy. It was still $140 US, but at least we got free shipping, and they had it in English. It's worth a mention, by the way, that just like with Windows 10, you don't actually have to punch in your product key to get through the installation process. That way, you can quickly set everything up, install all your drivers, and then only punch in the product key once it's time to activate. As before, we had no issues authenticating with Microsoft servers, and the only difference is that this box made an extra stop at a store before reaching our hands. Now, I couldn't help but noticing, guys, I haven't really saved any money yet. Ah, that's more like it. If you've spent any time building computers, you'll probably recognize this system builder or OEM envelope. These are meant to be sold to system builders that are assembling new PCs for resale. The advantage is that the system builder saves a few bucks on the license, but it does come with some trade-offs. For starters, that integrator is now the one responsible for user support. So if you have one of these, you don't get to call Microsoft. But hey, I mean, at least it comes with this sick coaster. Microsoft really think people are installing windows from a DVD in current year. We did. Oh, that must have taken a while. Yeah. The other trade-off with this sort of license is that it is bound to the first computer it's installed on. The retail license, by contrast, can be moved to an entirely different machine if you need to. Now, a lot of shops will just sell these to anyone that asks, sometimes with a rule that you have to buy a piece of hardware with the license, but it tends to be pretty poorly regulated, which is probably why the discount isn't that deep on it anymore. It cost us about $120 on Amazon, which seems a lot higher than it used to be back when we got them from our distributors at NCIX. On the subject of things being a better deal, I'm getting kind of tired of spending money here. You probably are too, so come on over here. Did you know that you can install and use Windows 11 indefinitely without spending a dime and you don't even need a special hat to do it? That's right. Anyone with a licensed copy of Windows 10 on their PC can upgrade to Windows 11 for free, provided that you meet Microsoft's hardware requirements. And in most cases, you can even make it work if you don't. We're gonna link to an article in the video description. Also, until recently, you could even activate a fresh install of Windows 11 using a Windows 7 or a Windows 8 key, and you can still do a fresh install using a Windows 10 key. The only caveat is that they have to be the same addition. Speaking of keys, why not keep yours on one of our wristlet key chains from lttstore.com? We've got four different colors, and with a metal latch, they last for a very long time. So convenient. But, Linus, you might say, I don't have a Windows 10 system or a product key, and I already bought one of those cool key chains. Well, remember how we said you don't need a product key to install Windows these days? Well, that's kind of all there is to it. You can download everything you need to make a USB installer for Windows for free directly from Microsoft. Then, when you're installing it, just click, I don't have a product key while you're installing. We did a whole video about this a while back, blowing several million minds in the process. And all these years later, Microsoft still hasn't closed the loophole, leading me to the conclusion that they are well aware of it and have decided that the advantages of remaining the dominant PC software platform outweigh the cost of not collecting that sweet, sweet licensing money, at least from home users. Now, there are some trade-offs, of course. For starters, most of the personalization options are grayed out, so you'll have to use a clever workaround to change your desktop background, and you can't use the Settings app to modify colors, themes, start menu, taskbar, lock screen, fonts, and so on. You can't even turn on dark mode, which is a bit of a bummer, and you'll eventually get that Activate Windows watermark in the corner that many of you are so quick to comment about. But big deal, you might say. I can put up with that to save some cash. Unfortunately, it has other downsides, the biggest one being that you may miss out on some of the less critical Windows updates, and that little watermark that you were gonna ignore may actually cause problems with graphics performance, including interfering with G-Sync and variable refresh rate gaming. I sincerely doubt that's something that Microsoft has done intentionally, but there are plenty of reports of these issues out in the wild, so they are something you wanna look out for. Now, everything we've looked at so far sits at worst a moral gray area. But that's about to change, so if your virgin ears can't handle it, you best click away. Fetch me Tri-Corn Hat. If it's piracy-e-be after, the tool you're looking for be called Microsoft Activation Scripts. Sorry, let's drop the accent. I was shocked when I found out how simple it is to pirate Windows 11. You just paste a one-liner into PowerShell, insert standard disclaimer about never blindly trusting random commands you find on the internet, confirm a couple of options, and that's it, activated Windows. It's not official, it's not terms of service compliant, and depending on your jurisdiction, it could be outright illegal, but there is no obvious difference as far as we can tell between the legit Windows that we activated and this one in terms of features or performance. And if you're worried about this script doing questionable things to your computer, you can review all the code for it yourself right on GitHub, which you may recall, was acquired by Microsoft back in 2018, meaning that they could have removed this tool at any time, but not only have they not done that, there's even anecdotal evidence to suggest that Microsoft support has used NAS to fix customer activation issues, which- What about Windows? Oh, what about Windows Linus? Are you still Windows? All right, all right, I'm getting rid of the hat. I get it, I get it. You're upstanding citizens, you don't want to pirate anything, you just want to pay a little less for the privilege of handing your personal information over to a giant corporation. All right, how's 20 bucks sound? What about 10? One dollar? As it turns out, there are a ton of third-party websites selling Windows licenses at pretty much whatever price you are willing to pay. We tried three of them, the Boing Boing Store, G2A.com, and AllKeyShop.com. Boing Boing Store seems to be selling licenses from a Microsoft partner in France, while G2A and AllKeyShop aggregate offers from multiple sellers that have far less clear origins. We were able to activate all of these keys without any issues, but that doesn't mean that we're going to endorse any of them. While the activation keys themselves may be legit, the means of obtaining them often isn't, and by supporting these kinds of marketplaces, you may be supporting organized networks of credit card thieves and fraudsters. Frankly, I'd be a lot more comfortable if you just pirated Windows, and it kind of seems like Microsoft feels the same way, given that they have offered the download and don't bother registering option for years now. By the way, while we're at it, I would strongly recommend against using any Windows installer that you obtain anywhere other than Microsoft's website. There are some cool ISO hacks out there. In fact, we've featured them before that will do things like strip out extra bloat, but it just feels like an unnecessary risk unless you 100% know what you're doing or you're just installing it to tool around with like we did. Coming back on topic, if none of the options we've given so far are right for you, Goldilocks, I can give you a couple of more. If you're a student or teacher, you can talk to your IT department. You may be able to get a license for cheap or even free depending on your school's agreement with Microsoft, though that license might expire once you graduate. And if you're buying for an organization rather than for yourself, you may want to look into volume licensing and key management systems to make your life a little bit easier. Finally, if you're the kind of person who enjoys the bleeding edge, you may wanna check out the Windows Insider program. Some of the features they roll out are pretty cool and some of them never even make their way into the mainline build so it can be the only way to see Microsoft's vision for the future of Windows and keep your fingers on the pulse of the development process. The second final option, C Intro One Liner, I got to it, is to not install Windows. Try out Linux. Don't worry about which distro you pick the first time. No matter which way you go, it's probably not gonna be quite right and someone's gonna be waiting to tell you all the ways you're wrong and your choice reflects on you as a person, but give it a shot. As for me, I'm waiting for Valve to release that new Steam OS before I dive down that rabbit hole again, which should be any time now. Well, this is getting awkward. While we wait, why don't you check out our sponsor? Manscaped. This holiday season, make sure your ornaments are jingling and jangling freely with Manscaped's performance package 5.0 Ultra. The lawnmower 5.0 Ultra is versatile enough to plow your driveway however you like, thanks to interchangeable trimmer and foil blades, three length setting combs, and an LED guiding light. Then you can make sure your chimneys are ready for old Saint Nick with their weed-wacker 2.0 and its blades that are designed specifically for your ears and nose. Finally, take care of your Christmas tree with their crop soother aftershave lotion and their crop preserver anti-chafing deodorant. Plus, keeping with the festive spirit, it even comes with a few free gifts. So head over to manscaped.com slash LTT20 and use code LTT20 to get 20% off and free shipping. If you guys liked this video, why not check out our look back at Windows 8? Was it really as terrible as you remember? Your best click away. Fetch me tricorne, dammit, I put it on backwards.