What's better? Nvidia or AMD? Whenever you're buying a new graphics card, chances are you are going to come across this question and depending on whether you're team red or team green, you're going to get different amounts of FPS, features, drivers, noise levels and that all-important VRAM, so choosing carefully is crucial. The first thing to bear in mind is that in-game performance is going to vary from brand to brand, but it's not just about the specifications of the hardware itself, it's also down to software optimization. At any given price point or performance level, you're usually going to have two cards competing against each other, with AMDs often being a little bit cheaper, but performance between them generally averages out about the same. The key word there though is average, as in some games you're going to see wild swings to favour one team. Due to optimizations or workloads in the game, they just work better than that vendor silicon. And it's for this exact reason that if the game you play the most loves team red or loves team green, this could be a significant reason to pick up one card over another. But hang on a second, let's step back for a second. Not that far. Didn't we just say that AMD's cards are a bit cheaper? Why is that? Well, to be frank, and put simply, it's because most of you buy Nvidia, 74.88% of you to be precise, even if all of them moaning the comments suggests otherwise. This alone gives a bias-bias towards team green, but Nvidia's historical strategy of locking down exclusive technologies like physics, DLSS and frame generation completes a more complete package for buyers, and in Nvidia's eyes adds more value to a team green GPU. But the funny thing is, this has almost gone to Nvidia's head over the last few years as the value of their cards has arguably come down on this generation as they haven't been keeping up with the amount of VRAM that their competitors, and to be honest, the video games themselves, have actually been requiring. But that's a story for a little bit later in this video. Love them or load them though, the fact of the matter is that the only vendor that supports DLSS, FSR and XTSS is Nvidia, so buying anything else means that you're potentially going to miss out and have those dreaded grade out options in the menus, not something that you want on a purchase potentially costing £750. However, this is all starting to change as aimed is moved to use FSR4 actually means that AI upskating hardware requires a 9000 series radio and graphics card, so it's RTX owners that may soon start to see the blight of those grade out options too, though they'll probably be able to make do with the older and significantly worse FSR 3.1 or DLSS that will probably be implemented as well. No, no, no, hang on a second, hang on a second, I knew this would happen. I clicked on a video all about AMD versus Nvidia and all you're doing is talking about upscalers, like they don't even matter, I don't want to use that tech. That's the sort of thing I hear all of the time, but honestly it makes such a big difference not only because it can massively increase your frame rate, but as I say, because there are huge differences in image quality between FSR and DLSS and ultimately the Nvidia card, the latest version of DLSS4 with the AI Transformers, visually looks the best, but it's amazing that AMD has caught up so much that FSR4 for all intents and purposes, I think for most people in gameplay, you're probably not really going to notice much of a difference between the two. It's awesome, especially if you're playing at 1440p or 4k, and it's for this reason that I'm pretty much like upscaler neutral now really. I would happily recommend either of these cards, despite the fact that DLSS is slightly better, but the thing you've got to remember is that the support for the games, which is obviously where it matters because you want to be able to turn it on, and if you have a game that doesn't support it, you can't. FSR4 specifically is quite limited, I think it's around about 90 games at the time of filming, but obviously this is growing, whereas DLSS, it's been going on for years now, and generally speaking it's been better at the earlier, lesser quality versions than the old-school FSR was from AMD. So it's definitely worth bearing all of this in mind, but if you do want to full explain it about upscalers and as I say, why they're so important and the differences, you can find this video in the top right corner off your screen. So yeah, I think anyone would have a hard time denying right now that Nvidia is a little bit better when it comes to upscaling, but over the next four years we could see FSR4 take a huge market share, but bearing in mind the number of 9000 series graphics cards sold is relatively small, Nvidia's dominance is unlikely to change anytime soon. But hey, we said that about raytracing didn't we? And yet now we're in a much better place where AMD really isn't too far behind anymore. As a refresher, raytracing is a lighting technique that calculates the way light reflects, bounces and diffuses through and across different surfaces, and is the most effective way to make a game more realistic. The problem is though that it takes masses of GPU horsepower, and even the very best graphics cards that cost thousands of pounds of dollars still drop huge amounts of FPS when enabling the tech. The most impressive form of raytracing, called pathtracing, tanked our RTX 5090 from about 150 FPS down to 90 in Doom the Dark Ages, but the game definitely does look undeniably better when this tech is enabled. And if this sounds to you like the tech isn't ready, then maybe you're right. It's something that's been worked on for years and years, and it's got so much better to the point that there are actually plenty of games that are very optimized that actually feature raytracing as standard, but this is usually just like a few reflections or a little bit of lighting here. It's not the full path tracing, but the good news is that because this is more widely adopted, it just is better, essentially, runs better and potentially looks better too. But the TLDR really is that AMD is absolutely catching up in most of those titles, but if you focus on raytracing and that's really what you want, then as always, Nvidia is still the best. It's a bit of a weird one because this tech is being so heavily pushed by everyone, and especially Nvidia, and whilst there is no doubt that RT is the best one-click graphical upgrade that you can make in a lot of titles, it can't make a good game great, and there's a lot more to graphics than just raytracing. Just like there's a lot more to the sponsor of this video. Ugreen's Nexo'd retractable series is here to make charging your devices so much easier. Not only do you get a rapid USB Type-C and Type-A port as you'd expect, but also a retractable USB-C cable for quickly charging up to a whopping 100 watts. That's enough to bring a 14-inch MacBook Pro M4 from 0 to 54% in as little as 30 minutes. This means you can quickly chuck a single device in your bag and then not have to worry about charging or losing that pesky USB-C cable. Ugreen's battery bank can deliver up to 165 watts of total power and has a capacity of 20,000mAh, letting you charge all your devices from phones to laptops and even the same deck. The Nexo'd retractable charger, meanwhile, is tiny, yet still packs that same retractable cable for travel and bliss. Like the power bank, it's widely compatible with a huge range of fast charging standards, and it can charge three devices at once across the cable and dual ports. It also uses Gallium Nitride technology for its smaller size and up to 95% efficiency. So if you're after a quick and easy travel solution where you can't forget your USB-C cable, then why not check out Ugreen with their Nexo'd series? And you can save up to 30% off Amazon, all the links you need are down in the description below. At this stage, I can already hear the comments, But as I said earlier, it's kind of undeniable that in terms of features, and this was deliberate from Nvidia from the beginning, they essentially want to have the most complete solution. As we touched on earlier, they have a significant drawback in certain skews that can give you issues like horrible stuttering. In some instances, games not actually launching at all, or just some weird graphical anomalies. And yes, this has absolutely been the talk of the town for the whole year, a lack of VRAM. And once again, I want to specify that this only happens on some models in some games, in particular being the RTX 5050, the RTX 5060, and then the baseline 5060 Ti, because all of these only have eight gigabytes of VRAM. But it also affects the more expensive RTX 5070 that only has 12 gigabytes. And you might be wondering like, well, 12 gig is higher than eight, so surely that's fine. It's all about relativeness, right? So if you're spending 100 pounds on a graphics card and it's got eight gigabytes of VRAM, then that's great. It's going to be fine for most games at 1080p and actually quite a lot of 1440. You can turn some of the settings down. Fantastic. But the point is, these cards should come equipped with the right amount of memory so that you can actually play the games at the settings that you want. And we have this really weird scenario now on some of the Nvidia graphics cards and some of the AMD ones, because they're not completely immune to this issue, where you might actually have the graphical horsepower to be able to play a game at like 120 FPS, let's say, but it might not have the VRAM to hold those settings. And thus you get these weird issues or horrible stutters and things, which is just really frustrating, especially when you think you should be buying a graphics card that's going to last, what, I'd say four or five years quite comfortably, rather than have issues day one. This is an issue that editor Carl has seen was benchmarking Monster Hunter Wilds. I've seen it in Hogwarts Legacy and more recently in Indiana Jones, even on that 5070. And the effects really aren't pretty. And it is for this exact reason that we do recommend a minimum of 12 gigabytes of VRAM pretty much across the board, maybe get away with it for something like 5050, as obviously is a more budget friendly GPU. But realistically, these cards, when you look at Intel and they actually supply 12 gigabytes on the B580, there's no reason that you shouldn't have more VRAM even on the entry level cards, as we want something that's going to last a while. I will add though, that it does look like there's actually a little bit of good news on the horizon, as Nvidia seemingly has heard the call on this and their upcoming 5070, 70ti and 80 supers do look set to increase VRAM by 50%, which would be very welcome indeed. So that's everything I think you need to know in a nutshell about VRAM, but there's a lot more to a graphics card than just software and VRAM, right? And this is probably the best example that I can give you of the differences between sub brands. It's worth remembering that we have a GPU that is designed by AMD or an Nvidia in their cards. But this is then bought and actually manufactured by an add-in board partner. So this is a Asus graphics card. This is a reference card that's made by AMD. And as you can see, they are completely different, despite the fact that the gaming performance on these will be almost identical in a lot of cases. So there's a few reasons for this, right? If you sell like a bigger graphics card, you put a larger cooling solution on it, it does a few things. It makes it run quieter, which I certainly appreciate. It means you can overclock it further. You can redesign some of the components and you can put more power inside it as well, which again is great for getting more performance. But the other thing, and the dark side, if you like, of graphics card these days, and I see it time and time again, and it's getting crazy and out of control, is that a lot of manufacturers will just strap an oversized cooling solution onto a graphics card to charge a load of money because they know that stock and availability probably won't be great and they can prioritize making more money out of you by selling something that is oversized that you probably don't need. Now, this doesn't apply to everyone and it doesn't apply to every graphics card, but certainly at launch you'll find that there seems to be a lot more stock of the more expensive versions and the cheaper ones tend to come in a little bit later just because there's a smaller profit margin on them. But it used to be the fact that you did need a better cooling solution because like the reference designs that you got on like the GTX 680, let's say, which was my first card, it wasn't very good. It was a blower style, it was loud. You wanted something better and I think they're kind of still playing into the fact that a lot of people have been PC gaming for years and they just always buy the best one and if you're spending like an extra $150, $200 on a cooler and a graphics card that costs $500, in my eyes that doesn't make any sense. So what I'd usually recommend is buying kind of like the best cheapest version of the card. Have a look at reviews, have a look at noise levels, have a look at performance and if you do want to get extra performance you can always just overclock it yourself. But yes, in a nutshell, again, quite a big difference between two exactly the same GPUs. It's also worth bearing in mind that some GPUs and some graphics cards can use less power than others, which can save you money in the long term and also result in a quieter system whilst also needing a smaller, cheaper power supply to run in the first place. And speaking of power, it's also worth bearing in mind that Nvidia's high-end cards usually use a newer but fairly controversial 12-volt high-power connection that looks a lot cleaner, is arguably easier to install, but it is so small that it's actually quite easy to install incorrectly and this can cause some rather hot problems. Though percentage-wise this is still a very, very rare occasion. And I add at this point that if you really want to get into the nitty-gritty there are so many different features we can talk about that are slightly different on AMD and Nvidia that this video could go on for three hours. But realistically, I think for most people the rest of the features are going to kind of trade blows a little bit between the teams. So I'm talking about like in-game recording actually on the GPU itself that doesn't like tax your system so you can kind of silently record which is a useful feature. We've got like anti-lag, we've got reflex, all of these things to like brin-leg to see down and a whole host of other things that are actually baked into the driver itself. But I think for most gamers for all intents and purposes you're going to find that it's going to be pretty similar between the two and it shouldn't influence your decision. Something that might though and something that is very controversial is frame generation. And honestly the biggest and most important thing that I can say about this is that it is one heck of a marketing tool for both sides as it's a single setting that lets you say double your FPS but in practice it doesn't really work like that. Frame generation is more of a frame smoothing technique. It adds an extra frame in between rendered frames to make the game look faster on screen. Great, but it does so by actually adding latency to the system making your game feel worse but looking a little bit better. I will say that it is very effective with a mouse and keyboard on 165 hertz or higher display when playing a game at 80 frames a second or above. Quite a prerequisite but these conditions that you see and feel lots of smoothness and make the tech worthwhile. And I've got to say that in my experience it's Nvidia's frame generation technique that does work better whether that's just because it's more deeply integrated to the hardware, the software, culmination of the two. It just kind of seems to work with a little bit less weirdness. That's not to say that AMD's version isn't worth experimenting with isn't worth using but in my experience as I say it tends to work a little bit better on Nvidia. They've also brought out on 50 series what they're calling multi-frame generation that actually lets you add up to three AI frames in total. This obviously inflates your FPS number to crazy levels but again it doesn't help with latency so your game will play like 80 frames a second but look like 300. Assuming you don't notice the weird blowing that's usually there at this setting and you have a displayed capable of showing the FPS that's there in the first place. So yeah frame generation absolutely can work and when it does it is genuinely impressive but as I say in my experience I find that I'm definitely turning it off more times than I'm turning it on but it all comes down to the exact scenario that you're using it within and if you are going to choose a card which I really hope you don't but if you choose a card specifically because you want frame generation then once again Nvidia's probably is slightly better. And again this might sound like oh he's biased towards Nvidia he doesn't care about AMD but here's the thing all of that is great that's kind of like the icing on top of the cake. The thing that matters more than anything else is all about price to performance and if Nvidia has the frosting in a lot of cases AMD has the cake. When it comes to costings we have seen huge fluctuations this year with a massive 9070XT shaped win for AMD pushing up ticket prices early in 2025 before coming back down in recent times with a self-correction. So rather than having just one best vendor the best cards really do vary across the stack and over time. Currently the RX 9060XT 16 gig model seems like a great shelf for anyone wanting a do-it-all 1440p GPU with the RX 9070 and 9070XT being no brainers for high refresh, fault in 40 and 4k with upscaling. The budget end of things Nvidia's RTX 5050 and 5060 are 8 gigabyte damped squibs and Intel's art cards are probably going to be a better bet there but I've got to admit that I do have a soft spot for the RTX 5060Ti. This is the cheapest good way to access all of those Nvidia features and has all of the performance that most gamers will need to have a great experience. The RTX 5070's 12 gigabytes of VRAM makes it a harder pick especially with super coming but the RTX 5070Ti's 16 gig makes a clear high-end choice for those that want kick-ass performance and all the shiny bells and whistles. And as at this point in the video that I'd usually discuss the ultra high-end and obviously talk about the pros and cons but there are no competition unfortunately for the RTX 5080 and 5090 so if you want the absolute best graphics cards today for gaming you have to go in for Nvidia and I think this is a big shame for a variety of reasons. Firstly no competition means that Nvidia can get lazy like they did with the 5080 it was better than the previous one but not like crazy amount. Secondly obviously means that the price on those can just like creep up because there's no competition so there's nothing to anchor it down. Then also I don't think this but I think from a user perception point of view if AMD don't have something at the top end it kind of make it looks like the best graphics cards are invidious because AMD can't even make one of these high-end graphics cards right so clearly like Nvidia GPUs are just better. As I say I definitely don't think that but from a perception point of view I think even if you weren't making like crazy amounts of money on the top end cards I still think it would be worth it from an anchoring point of view and as I say from a perception point of view but that's the situation that we're in at the moment. Hopefully this is going to change because they are rumored to have like a graphics card that has the performance of an RTX 4090 for a significantly lower price in their next generation which would be awesome but whether they're going to be like fighting the 5090 or the 6090 anytime soon my money's probably on no sadly but those are future products we don't need to worry about it for now if you're obviously buying a graphics card and you're choosing between the two vendors there is no best choice other than the fact as I say the more feature complete one is going to be Nvidia but whether those features actually matter to you is something you need to work up yourself. DLSS AI transformers all of that stuff is great frame generation is going to be okay but there will be plenty of people that probably won't use this at all especially if you're playing multiplayer and then as I say the rest of the features kind of like trade blows really between team red and team green so it comes down to price and performance more than anything else look at the benchmarks look at the games that you're actually going to be playing work out which card is going to get you the frame rate that you want and if you find that you can go for AMD offering and it's a little bit cheaper then I think you've got every reason to do so especially bear in mind FSR4 as I say is very very good and over the next few years it's hopefully going to be adopted in more and more titles and I think it's going to age very well but ultimately there's no right or wrong answer it pretty much just comes down to are you willing to pay the Nvidia tax it's like the cheese tax for dogs quite less cheese hopefully this video has been helpful though if you do want to check out current pricing on any of these GPUs and our recommendations we'll leave them down in the comment section below as well as a pinned comment or you can check this video on the top right corner of your screen that goes through the best combinations of GPUs and CPUs to help you get the best performance possible but thanks for watching this video smash the like button if you enjoyed it get yourself subscribed and we'll catch you in the next one you