It's your man Alex and in this video I'm going to be showing you guys my take on a low  to mid fade self haircut. The more haircuts I give myself the more and more I get better  and I appreciate all of the feedback from the actual barbers who watch my videos because  as you may or may not know I am by no means a licensed barber whatsoever. I love cutting my own  hair and I've been doing so for the past 10 years. So without any further ado here's what I did to  give myself this low to mid fade self haircut. So working my way up my head with the guards  I started with no guard and the lever closed then once I finished this all the way around my head  I moved up to the number one guard lever closed going up about one inch from the initial guideline  once I went all the way around my head with the number one guard lever closed I did the exact  same thing only now changing to the number two guard lever closed going up another one inch from  the previous guideline. So in this self haircut as you know I went for the low mid fade so my initial  guideline with no guard and the lever closed was very low on my head and I did my best to take out  small amount of hair by my ears and my neckline. The key to giving yourself a perfect fade is patience.  A lot of people reach out to me and tell me how great of a job or how bad of a job they did  for their first self haircut. As a beginner you can't just jump right into the self haircut  and think you'll finish within 30 minutes and expect to do a good job that won't happen.  I recommend you set aside at least one to two hours to cut your own hair. This way you have a  clear mind no one you can take it slow and steady because cutting your own hair is not a race whatsoever  you're not competing with anyone. Your goal is to do a solid job and you need to have patience  a lot of time and take things slowly this way you can really focus on all of the details.  So once all of our guidelines are in place from the no guard to the number one guard to the number  two guard all with the lever closed we can begin fading in those hard lines using the same guard  from each guideline. Open your lever to the halfway position and begin to flick up and away at  the hard line. You don't want to cut too far into the guideline so try to keep a flick out motion  directly at the hard line. Another good tip would be to stick to using the same guard all the  way around your head until you finish with that guideline or hard line removal. Then once that  guideline is done move up and do the same thing with the next guard and sew on with the guard  after that one. If you can try to purchase the $7 Walmart mirror I talk about in my self haircut  mirror setup with the fade video. You do not want to have the multitask using the handheld mirror  so please do yourself the favor and check out that video. The mirror I use from Walmart  is an absolute game changer for self haircuts. Also I have a huge announcement to make  the self haircut educational course and private community is now available to view on our website  www.AlexCurus.com. The release date for the self haircut course will be on Wednesday, July 1st, 2020.  On a daily basis you guys show me how serious you are about learning how to cut your own hair  so for the past two months I have been working non stop on creating this awesome platform to help  you learn this amazing skill set for life and save hundreds of dollars every single year from  barber visits and as a bonus for being one of the first to join the first 100 members to join  the course will get a free zoom or Skype coaching call with me to help answer any of your questions  that you may have so check out our website which will be the first link at the top of the description  I look forward to helping you become an expert self haircutter  and if you guys like it make sure you leave a thumbs up if you're new to my channel make sure  you guys hit that subscribe button as well thank you so much for watching but I'll catch you next time  peace