I've used Nvidia GPUs my entire life until one year ago when I finally decided to make the switch to AMD. And since then, gaming has never felt the same. If you've been in the PC gaming community for any amount of time, you've probably noticed most tech youtubers recommend AMD GPUs. Yet they still use Nvidia in their own builds. That made me wonder, if AMD is really that good, why isn't everyone using it? So last May, I decided to go all in. Not just for gaming, but editing, productivity, and everything in between. Now, 12 months later, was this the best decision I've ever made, or a thousand dollar mistake? Even before I bought the card, I knew this switch wasn't going to be easy. Not because I was scared to try AMD, but because my personal situation made everything harder. Especially compared to everyone else who attempted this challenge before me. Now you might be asking, what could be so complicated about swapping a graphics card? You just take it out, and put a new one in. Well, I'm upgrading from an RTX 3060 laptop, which was already a huge step up from integrated graphics to one of AMD's fastest desktop GPUs. And that introduced three big problems. You can't put a desktop GPU in a laptop. My horrible 8 year old desktop is way too slow for a new GPU, and even if it wasn't, the card probably wouldn't even fit. That left only one option. Build a brand new all AMD computer. No Nvidia, no Intel. Just pure red. But before I could build anything, I had to choose an AMD GPU first. This was mid 2024, almost a full year before the RX 9070 XT was released. That meant I had to choose between AMD's last gen 6000 series and their newer 7000 series. As a broke software engineering student with loans to pay off bidding for the RX 7900 XTX at $1000 was out of the question. $1000 should be the price of my entire PC. I also wanted something that would be a significant upgrade from my 3060 laptop. I wanted an upgrade, not a side grade. So cards like the 6600 and 7600 were scratched off the list. So immediately I was drawn towards the 7800 XT, 7900 GRE, and 6900 XT. Hoping that I would be able to find at least one of these for a good price. After weeks of losing eBay bids, I finally won a 6900 XT for $395, which was significantly below the average selling price. But the price wasn't the only reason why I chose it over anything else in its price range. Back in 2020, the RX 6900 XT launched at $1000, and honestly it was kind of a letdown, especially during the GPU shortage when it was nearly impossible to find at MSRP. 9% more frames than the 6800 XT for 42% more money. It's safe to say that it wasn't worth the money back then. Fast forward to today though, and it's a different story. For just $400, this card not only matches the RTX 4070 Super at a lower price, but it also has 16GB of VRAM, which will probably be enough for at least a few more years. When the payment went through, it really felt like the best value I could get without blowing my budget. At least that's what I hoped. With the GPU finally in hand, I was ready to build the rest of the system. Almost. In reality, I was broke, as I said. I couldn't afford to buy everything at once, so I kept saving, researching, and budgeting for a few more weeks. It wasn't until July that the rest of the parts finally arrived at my door. First, the CPU. The Ryzen 5 7600 X. It's about as fast as the Ryzen 7 5800 X3D, so it'll definitely be fast enough to not bottleneck my GPU. More importantly, it's on the new AM5 platform, so I can upgrade later if I ever go for something like the Radeon 7900 XTX. For the rest of the build, I kept things pretty simple and cost effective. Every part was chosen to deliver as much gaming performance as possible without wasting a dollar on aesthetics. I picked up the cheapest 32GB kit of 6000MHz CL30 RAM, the cheapest ATX motherboard, a single fan air cooler, an all-black case, the cheapest 2TB NVMe SSD, and the cheapest 3PAC of fans. And after 2 hours of building and 4 hours setting it up, my brand new PC was ready to go. But this was only the beginning. Over the past 310 days, I've spent more than 2,000 hours gaming on the system. That's nearly 7 hours a day on average. And that's not even counting the time I spent editing, making content, or doing other family-friendly activities. I was still spending a decent amount of time outside, but if there's anyone who really knows what it's like to live with an AMD setup every single day, it would be me. As someone who is basically only used in video's GeForce Experience and Control Panel, switching to AMD's adrenaline software was very simple. You get basically all the features you have with GeForce Experience being able to adjust many settings that you would otherwise not have access to with just the in-game settings, like surface format optimization, for example. One feature I really appreciated was the automatic tuning options. AMD doesn't just offer auto-overclocking like the Nvidia app. It also includes auto-undervolting, which I found super useful for extending the longevity of my card without sacrificing performance. I bought a couple other AMD GPUs in the past year to test this as well, and it seemed like it worked really well for all three. Regardless, the adrenaline interface feels a little bit different, but once you get used to it, it's pretty intuitive and, dare I say, better than the Nvidia app that replaced GeForce Experience. However, switching over to AMD wasn't without its compromises. The first thing I had to get used to was giving up some of Nvidia's best gaming features, DLSS upscaling, frame generation, and better ray tracing. Even though I've said in the past that I don't really care about DLSS or ray tracing, a lot of that was just coping. The truth is, DLSS felt like magic on my 3060 laptop. It boosts FPS, keeps image quality close to native, and in some cases, actually looks better. AMD's FSR upscaling just wasn't hitting the same level of sharpness, especially at lower resolutions or in motion. But this might not be the case in the very near future. AMD and even Intel have been catching up lately. FSR and XCSS have made their way into more and more games, and FSR4 is looking very promising, often better than Nvidia's latest DLSS3. But there are still older titles like Rise of the Tomb Raider, and even slightly newer ones like Control, where DLSS is the only upscaling option. So if you don't have an Nvidia GPU, you either have to play at a lower resolution or get less FPS. As for ray tracing, I've never had a GPU that could run it well anyways, so I've always left it off. Same with frame generation. It's a cool feature, but it's not supported on the RTX 30 series or RX 6000 series, so it's not a technology I've been able to use. So yeah, switching to AMD came with quite a few sacrifices. But for how much raw performance you get with the 6900XT, especially at the price they go for, it's easy for me to look past those tradeoffs. With those tradeoffs in mind, let's see how the 6900XT handles today's most demanding Unreal Engine 5 titles, competitive games, and everything in between. The first game I tried when I set up this PC was Cyberpunk 2077, and out of the 11 games I'm going to be showing you today, this is absolutely one of the most difficult ones to run, especially with fully maxed path tracing. This game was so demanding on my 3060 laptop to the point where I had to enable DLSS if I wanted to play above 60 FPS on high settings, which is definitely kind of disappointing for something that I spent about $700 on. But on the 6900XT, I was able to experience ultra settings without any form of upscaling. After playing this game on and off and finally completing every ending including the DLC though, I definitely spent most of my time using FSR because I did enjoy having the extra smoothness. However, Cyberpunk is most famous for its impressive lighting features rather than its models and textures, and while using FSR performance, you can play with ultra ray tracing if you want it. Path tracing however requires FSR ultra performance to maintain at least 50 FPS, which means path tracing isn't really viable on this card, not unless you're okay with serious visual artifacting. However, during my 2000 hours of playtime on this PC, I am embarrassed to admit that 90% of that time was spent in this next game, Fortnite. Despite it being a mostly CPU bound game, most people believe that AMD GPUs are incapable of running this game smoothly in performance mode. The issue with that is that it forced a lot of AMD GPU users to use DX12 instead of performance mode. It doesn't sound like a big deal, but for a game where a large portion of its player base competes competitively, being forced onto DX12 causes quite a few issues. It increases your input delay pretty significantly, is more intensive on the GPU, and is simply unusable and competitive to the point where performance mode isn't just a preference. It's a requirement if you actually want to win. And these rumors about AMD graphics cards being bad for Fortnite have been circulating around for years, but are the rumors actually true? Well, after spending a couple minutes playing Fortnite, I can confidently say that I have no idea why people are having stuttering problems in this game. The 6900XT was maintaining 240 FPS like it was nothing, and the only times it couldn't maintain 240 FPS were because of my CPU not being able to keep up when there are too many players in builds in a small area. Even after testing lower-end AMD GPUs like the RX 6600M and RX 580, the game ran extremely smoothly. And to my surprise, the only time I ever had stutters was when I was using an Intel GPU, the ARC B580. So the stutter issues are still definitely real, but I guess I got lucky with AMD, 3 times in a row. The third game we're testing is Rise of the Tomb Raider, which just so happens to be the third game I tested when I first built the computer. Though this game is now approaching 10 years of age, it is still surviving the test of time, and was actually the reason I made the jump from integrated graphics to the RTX 3060. However, the 3060 did suffer on maxed out textures, so I was eager to see how it would look on my new AMD graphics card. And yeah, the first time I booted this game up on this GPU, it was low-key life changing, getting over 200 FPS at 1440p with everything maxed out blew my expectations. The sequel to this game, Shadow of the Tomb Raider, was one of the very first implementations of ray tracing. And though the 6900XT isn't great at ray tracing relative to its raster performance, it still maintains over 100 FPS with maxed out settings and ray trace shadows, and an even more impressive 160 FPS by simply turning ray tracing off. Control was a game that I got into relatively late, and the only reason I ever tried it in the first place was because my friend gave me his Epic Games account, which just so happens to have this game on it. But this game is a great example of why it was a good choice to choose the 6900XT over its Nvidia competition. At ultra settings, you can see that the VRAM usage is well over 13 gigabytes. So before you can even turn on ray tracing with the RTX 4070 Super, it's already at its VRAM limit. And though the 6900XT can do ray tracing on the high preset at 1080p, ultra RT at 1440p native leaves a lot to be desired. But things start looking better in this next game. Ratchet and Clank, Rift Apart, our first PlayStation port of the video is another VRAM hungry game that runs amazingly well on this GPU. Although it does offer full ray tracing, it isn't an option on AMD graphics cards. Either way, at fully maxed out settings, the 6900XT was able to finish the intro cutscene with 112 average FPS and a 1% low of 82 FPS, which is plenty for a game in this genre. Fragpunk, one of the newest Unreal Engine 5 titles, but also one of the most well optimized, can easily do 500 FPS with this GPU at low settings. And if you have a 240Hz monitor like I do, the 1% lows of 252 means this game will feel consistent through and through on these settings. But with a monster GPU like this, you might as well up the settings to the highest preset. And it's good to know that I can still get over 200 FPS without upscaling frame generation or compromising on any graphics settings. Blacksmith Wukong, in contrast, is one of the most demanding games in history. Good luck playing this Soulslight game at 1440p native with very high settings. You're only gonna get 40 FPS with this card. Fortunately, FSR quality does a really good job here and brings us up to 78 average FPS without sacrificing much visual quality. Ghost of Tsushima, despite originally releasing as a PlayStation exclusive in 2020, the PC port released just last year. But strangely isn't as VRAM hungry as something like Ratchet and Clank. In the opening scene, it does a solid 90 average frames with a 1% low not far behind at 75 FPS. The uncharted 4 PC port released in 2022 doesn't offer too much in terms of graphical advancements, but still looks great by today's standards while not being too demanding. The XT easily holds an average frame rate of 137 and a 1% low of 99 FPS. To close out the benchmarks, we're gonna end off with Rocket League simply because I've picked this game back up again recently. High quality render settings with everything else set to performance keeps this game at 1100 average FPS and 800 in the 1% lows. This PC is completely overkill for a game like this. While gaming was a breeze at my preferred settings, that wasn't the only thing I used the 6900XT4. Being a content creator, you can probably guess that I've spent a decent chunk of my time editing videos, rendering timelines, and doing just about everything in between. But the thing is, AMD gets absolutely slammed when it comes to productivity. Whether it's video editing, encoding, 3D rendering, or anything related to machine learning or AI tools, Nvidia GPUs that would normally be in the same conversation as the 6900XT are now miles ahead. In Premiere Pro and After Effects for example, it wasn't unusable of course, but it wasn't noticeably faster than my RTX 3060 laptop. Which sounds crazy considering the 3060 Mobile is an entry level graphics card. But to be fair, the 6900XT was still more than capable of handling everything I threw at it. OBS was totally fine since I wasn't streaming most of the time just recording gameplay. And even when I did stream the few times that I did, I didn't run into issues you would normally expect. So even though Nvidia undoubtedly has the upper hand in productivity and AI workloads, I don't care. We do not care. The 6900XT is perfect as my daily driver. I never felt like it was slowing me down or holding me back. And that's more than I can say for a lot of GPUs I've used before. This GT710, I cannot believe this thing costs 30 whole dollars. For that price I could have watched the Minecraft movie. Twice. But how long do I think the 6900XT will last? Because sure. Right now delivers impeccable 1440p performance across a wide range of games. But games are only gonna get harder and harder to run. In spite of that, I honestly see it running strong for at least a couple more years. Especially with the continued development of AI upscaling and frame generation. I don't expect to upgrade anytime soon because the card still performs at a level that suits my Even as games get more demanding, its 16GB VRAM should help it stay relevant. And I'm confident that it will continue to be a great choice for 1440p gaming. And if I could go back in time and pick a different card, I probably wouldn't. This GPU gave me the best balance between price and performance for what I needed. And overall, I don't think I could be more satisfied with my switch to AMD. That said, there were many compromises I had to make. Earlier I said that this video card misses out on Nvidia features like frame generation. But what if you could have AMD's price to performance and Nvidia's advanced features at the same time? Well, I might have found the solution. If you want to see me use both AMD and Nvidia in the same PC to hit 240fps in every game, watch this video next.